---
category: Posts
title: Why is this website so basic?
datebrief: 2017-10-08
---

A growing trend in the web development industry is to attach as many dynamic
objects, bells, and whistles to your website as possible, because apparently
the average user is more likely to stick around when you use flashy sliding
menubars. I'm not much of a web developer, but I thought I'd try to create this
site to be as minimal as possible, while still trying to get across the
core message of each post, without sacrificing style and elegance.

So, why is this website so basic?

* \- Everyone can read it, so long as they have a web browser and an Internet
connection.

* \- I can create and maintain it with minimal effort and skill.

* \- To prove that website creation can be simple if you're willing to open a
terminal.

* \- It loads fast (hopefully you noticed this).

On this website, you will find no comment sections, and definitely no flashy
sliding menubars. Just text, images, and style. If you find a problem, have a
recommendation for this site, wish to leave feedback, or discuss with others,
[contact me](./contact.html) via Twitter or GitHub.

If you want to create a simple static site like this one, I recommend the use
of [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) with Github's page builder. To see exactly
how I've done it, check out the source on
[GitHub](https://github.com/mvousden/personal-site). The idea of designing a
website like this was inspired by [txti](http://txti.es) and [suckless.org's
post on the state of the web](http://suckless.org/sucks/web) (strong
language). The style of this website was also inspired by Jekyll.
