---
category: Posts
title: Why is this website so basic?
datebrief: 2017-10-08
---

A growing trend in the web development industry is to attach as many dynamic
objects, bells, and whistles to your website as possible, because apparently
the average user is more likely to stick around when you use flashy sliding
menu-bars. Against conventional wisdom, I thought I'd try to create a minimal
website, while still trying to get across the core message of each post, and
without sacrificing style and elegance.

So, why is this website so basic? What are the advantages?

* Everyone can read it, so long as they have a web browser and an Internet
connection (try it with a text-based browser!)

* I can create and maintain it with minimal effort and skill, and I can fix it
if I break something later.

* To prove that website creation can be simple if you're willing to open a
terminal.

* It loads quickly (hopefully you noticed this).

On this website, you will find no comment sections, text that fades in, and
definitely no flashy sliding menu-bars. Just simple text, images, and style.  I
hope that this simplicity impacts you and your future design endeavours
positively!

If you find a problem, have a recommendation for this site, wish to leave
feedback, or discuss with others, [contact me](./contact.html) via Twitter or
GitHub. If you want to create a simple static site like this one, I recommend
the static-site generator [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), with [GitHub's page
builder](https://pages.github.com/). To see exactly how I've done it, check out
my [source on GitHub](https://github.com/mvousden/personal-site). The idea of
designing a website like this was inspired by [txti](http://txti.es) and
[suckless.org's post on the state of the web](http://suckless.org/sucks/web)
(strong language). The style of this website was also inspired by Jekyll.
